So here it is, rev 1.0 and for lack of any plan, It is under GPL. If anyone wants 
something else, let's talk offline.

All this has only been tested with the propeller protoboard, and teraterm pro v4.51 http://sourceforge.jp/projects/ttssh2/ as a terminal program.

I run teraterm at 115.2 kb with 8 bits, no parity, 1 stop bit, no flow control, 1ms delay per line. Tested with prop clip, and RS232 port on Toshiba laptop.

Getting started:

There are 2 spin files in the package:
FullDuplexSerialForth.spin
NewForth.spin

Put them in a directory, and open NewForth.spin with the propeller tool.
NewForth.Spin is the source code for forth. 

In the main routine you will find a line:
  if Console.start(31, 30, 0, 115200)
This is the serial initialization, if you want to run the serial port differently, change this.
Pasting text into the terminal window, which I do a lot, can overrun the serial driver. 115.2kb did not
have any issues. Slower should be OK.

Compile and program the eeprom the propeller.

Now fire up teraterm, make sure you have the options set and the correct port selected, and hit enter.

You should see:
Cog2 ok

CTRL-A selects the next cog (cog 0 runs the spin code, cog 1 the serial driver, cog 2-7 forth).
CTRL-B reboots the propeller
CTRL-C resets the current cog, and switches to the next cog ( an initialization artifact)


This forth is mostly ansi standard, my way of not having to write documentation.
There is documentation for the forth words in:
NewForthPart1.f
NewForthPart2.f
NewForthPart3.f

Next step if to clear the upper part of the eeprom, and load some forth tools.

Decompiler - a set of forth words which decompile a forth word
CogAsm - a cog assembler - integrated with forth
SpinMaker - tools to make a new NewForth.spin and compile a new version

If you don't want to do any of these things, don't bother and go play with forth.

type in:
f_clear<enter>

This clears out the upper 32k of eeprom and allows us to load some forth tools into this area.


Using your favorite editor open CogAsm.f copy all the contents to the clipboard, and paste into teraterm
Repeat for Decompiler.f and SpinMaker.f

The forth word list, will list the files loaded in the eeprom.

load decompiler<enter>

decompile decompile<enter>


You get the idea. Look in the *.f files for whatever documentation that is available. The NewForth.f file also contains documentation, and the low level assembler code for the base forth words.